Spring Security adds the following security headers,
by default, to all responses.
Let's break these down.
The Cache-Control header instructs the browser to
disable all caching completely.
Caching can add efficiency by saving a round-trip to the server.
However,
it can also be a security risk to your users as cached pages are
stored in the browser's temporary internet files and could be viewed
by a third party after the user logs out.
The information in these cached pages could be enough for
identity theft or perhaps to reset the password.
Content type options set to nosniff.
This prevents the browser from trying to be a bit too clever
and guessing the content type of responses that do not
include the content type header.
Now browsers have tended to do this to improve the user's experience.
However,
this can be exploited by hackers as they can create polyglot files
that can be interpreted in multiple formats,
example displayed as an image, but, at the same time,
executed as a script.
X-Frame-Options: DENY.
This instructs the browser not to embed your web application in frames.
This is to protect against clickjacking where your user is tricked into
clicking something on your website without being aware of that.
This is a popular attack in social media and even has its own name,
likejacking,
where users are tricked into liking posts and pages
in their social media platform,
giving the malicious site access to their friend list.
Typically this is done by overlaying a malicious site
over the top of the target site.
Hence, if a user is logged into the target site,
the malicious site can load the target site in the background.
Any actions on the malicious site are actually taking place on the target site.
In the demo, we'll demonstrate this attack.
Reflective cross-site scripting protection, block.
This instructs the browser to enable its built-in
reflective cross-site scripting protection.
Reflective cross-site scripting attacks are when content is
submitted or injected into your web application and reflected
back to whoever is viewing it.
Now this could be a script.
And instead of displaying it, the user's browser can decide to execute it.
Cross-site request forgery.
Spring also protects your site against cross-site
request forgery or session writing,
which is an attack that forces an end user to execute unwanted actions on a
web application in which they're currently authenticated.
The way it works is your user authenticates with your web site,
the webserver will return a cookie,
which is stored by the browser against that domain.
This is so all future requests to that domain do not have to re-authenticate.
The browser will just automatically include the cookie
for all future requests to the server.
If while the user is still logged in, they access a malicious site,
perhaps in another tab, and submit something to that malicious site,
the malicious site can submit a request to the target server domain,
and the browser will automatically add the cookie to that request.
Now cross-site request forgery attacks are only
viable for state- changing operations, like PUT,
POST, or DELETE as the response is returned back to the user's browser.
However, the malicious site could submit a change of content,
deleting content, transferring funds perhaps,
or even trying to reset the password to give the
hacker access to the user's account.
Spring, by default,
protects against cross- site request forgery using
the synchronizer token pattern.
The way it works is when a user logs into your web application,
the server returns the response,
which includes both the cookie and additionally a randomly generated token.
The browser will store the cookie against the domain,
but it has no knowledge of the token as it's application specific.
Spring Security then expects both the cookie and the token
to be returned for all future requests.
The malicious site has no access to the token.
Hence, when it submits the request to your domain,
Spring Security will reject it.
Like most things in Spring Security, there is a filter,
the cross-site request forgery filter that performs the
checks and adds the token to the response.
For the most part,
you shouldn't need to change any of the default security
headers as there are there for a reason.
However, there will be times when you might need to customize them,
particularly the caching, or allow framing of your site for certain domains.
Now like most things in Spring Security,
you can easily configure these settings.
From your configuration class that extends the WebSecurityConfigurerAdapter,
overwriting the configure method that accepts the HttpSecurity object,
there is a method to access the header and cross-cross request forgery filters.
By default, the X frameOptions header is set to deny,
indicating the site should not include any frames.
If you do, however, want to allow framing,
you can configure it with a less restrictive setting,
like sameOrigin, which only allows framing in the same domain.
Or you could specify a whitelist of all the domains you
permit your site to be framed in.
Similarly, the content type header can also be disabled if required.
However,
you will be reducing the cross- site scripting protection for your users.
For caching you shouldn't need to disable the header as you can
selectively enable the caching on static pages that do not have
sensitive data in the controller classes.
Take, for example, this pricing endpoint.
It only contains the current price, so it has no sensitive user data.
But caching it for a few seconds or minutes might reduce the
number of roundtrips back to the server.
Hence, on the response, you can enable the caching and add the duration.
Spring will then automatically detect and adjust this
header for that particular page,
but continue to send the disabling header for all other pages.
If you do, however, want to remove this header,
you can do so using the disable property.
For cross-site request forgery protection, there is a separate filter.
You can remove the filter from service with the disable property,
hence removing any cross-site request forgery protection completely,
which is not recommended.
The filter will add the cross-site request forgery
token to the response property.
You can then retrieve it and add it to your forms as a hidden field.
I am actually using Thymeleaf, which is a templating engine,
which detects the presence of the cross-site request forgery property in the
response and automatically adds the token to all forms.
Again, use the correct HTTP verbs in your application.
You only need to add the token to state- changing operations,
like PUT, POST, DELETE, OR PATCH.
Other methods, like GET or HEAD,
would require the token to be passed in the query string,
which is not encrypted when using HTTPS,
which greatly increases the chances of the token being exposed.
If you are using a single-page application that perhaps uses JSON for the
request and response like an AngularJS application,
you can configure the cross-site request forgery
token to be placed inside the cookie.
That way,
your application's JavaScript can remove the token from
the cookie and add it to the request.
At the other end,
the cross-site request forgery filter will compare the token
from the cookie against the one in the request.
Now JavaScript handling this might make some people a little bit nervous.
However,
the browser restricts JavaScript to only have access
to the cookies for their domain.
Now for AngularJS, this just all works of the box with Spring Security.
To configure this, set the token repository to CookieCsrfTokenRepository.
If you need JavaScript to access the cookie to retrieve the token,
then set the HTTP with only false.
Otherwise, it's best to leave this default, which is disabled.
An important note.
If you're using stateless, basic, or digest authentication,
you still need the cross-site request forgery protection as the
browser will include the basic and digest authentications header by
default just like it would the cookie.
Finally, it's worth considering the use of the contentSecurityPolicy headers,
which is a great way to protect your users from cross-site scripting attacks.
It's currently supported by most popular browsers, including Internet Explorer.
Configuring it with Spring Security is simple.
You can access the CSP header with the header filter
object in the configure method.
You can then add the domain you permit various resources to originate from, anything from script, CSS, fonts, you name it.